Goi Buoi (Vietnamese Pomelo Salad) Recipe
https://www.seriouseats.com/goi-buoi-pomelo-salad-recipe
Prep time: 1 hour and 5 minutes
6 servings

Ingredients:
For the Scallops:
1 pound sea scallops, each roughly 1 to 1 1/2 inches in diameter (dry packed if available)
2 tablespoons peanut oil
Kosher salt
Freshly ground pepper
For the Chilled Ingredients:
1 large pomelo (about 3 pounds)
1 green mango, peeled and sliced into matchstick strips
1 large, fat carrot, peeled and sliced into matchstick strips
1 English cucumber, deseeded and sliced into matchstick strips
For the Herbs:
1/2 cup Thai basil leaves, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup rau ram leaves, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup spearmint leaves, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup cilantro leaves, coarsely chopped
2 kaffir lime leaves, very thinly sliced (optional)
For the Dressing:
1 red Thai bird chili, finely sliced
3 cloves garlic, pounded or pressed
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice (about 1/2 lime)
1 tablespoon fish sauce
For the Garnish:
4 tablespoons lightly toasted sesame seeds
1/2 teaspoon sea salt
4 tablespoons chopped Virginia-style roasted peanuts

1) Rinse scallops under cold water and thoroughly pat dry. Place scallops in a single layer on paper towels. Allow scallops to reach room temperature to draw out excess moisture. (See note.)
2) When ready to cook, sprinkle scallops with salt and pepper on their flat sides. Over a high flame, heat a non-stick pan with oil until it begins to smoke. Use tongs to add about 8-10 scallops to the pan, taking care that the scallops don't touch. (The scallops exude a little juice as they cook. When overcrowded in the pan, they steam rather than sear.) After 2 minutes, the contact side will develop a golden crust. Quickly flip the scallops and sear again for another 2 minutes. (The scallops should be lightly browned on each side but still translucent in the center.) Plate scallops immediately, and sear the next batch as necessary. Once all scallops have cooled, halve them lengthwise into thinner discs. Set aside.
3) Pomelo: With a paring knife, peel off the thick outer rind and cottony pith of the pomelo. Separate the fleshy pulp from the opaque skins that form each wedge. Gently pull chunks of pomelo pulp into bite-size pieces and place them into a gallon-sized Ziploc bag or large Tupperware.
4) Chilled ingredients: Prep mango, carrot, cucumber, and herbs. Gently toss these ingredients along with the scallops into the pomelo container. Refrigerate.
5) Dressing: Combine the chili, garlic, lime juice, and fish sauce in a small bowl. Refrigerate separately. An hour before serving, pour the dressing into the container holding the other refrigerated ingredients. Toss gently and fold through to combine.
6) Garnish: Heat a large flat skillet over medium heat. As it begins to smoke, add sesame and sea salt and toast for 2 to 4 minutes, tossing continuously to ensure even browning. The seeds will smell nutty and turn gold as they begin to brown. As soon as this happens, pour seeds onto a plate to cool. Plate the salad and garnish with toasted sesame and peanuts.


Total nutrients:
calories        protein         carbs           fat             satfat          unfat           sodium          sugar           fiber           servings
269             14 g            34 g            11 g            2 g             0 g             800 mg          12 g            5 g             4
Serving size:
calories        protein         carbs           fat             satfat          unfat           sodium          sugar           fiber
67              3               8               2               0               0               200             3               1